Hedge funds employ hedging strategies,
in an attempt to deliver a market neutral returns.
By market neutral, I mean that the portfolio's gains or
losses are less affected by overall market movements.
Hedging generally means entering into
a transaction in order to reduce exposures to price fluctuations.
This is done by buying derivatives such as options or futures.
For instance, let's say we hold 100 shares of Daimler,
the owner of car brands such as Mercedes-Benz.
We want to ensure against losses if the stock price of Daimler drops.
So, we buy 100 put options on shares in Daimler.
As an example, each put option gives us the option to
sell one Daimler share at a fixed price of 60 euros.
So, one would be a good time to exercise that right to sell.
Well, if the market price of Daimler drops below 60 euros such as 50 euros.
We could buy Daimler stock at 50 euros per share.
Use the put option to sell the same stock at 60 euros.
We could keep that 10 euros per share as profit.
This could cancel out the 10-euro per share loss
that we would incur on our existing 100 shares.
Hedging helps money managers devise investment strategies that are market neutral,
which means that gains or losses are less sensitive to movements in the overall market.